reference/README.md, before:

# A2A Protocol v1.0.0 - Agent-to-Agent Communication

A secure, protocol-driven communication framework for autonomous agents with cryptographic identity binding, policy-based access control, and comprehensive audit logging.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-org/a2a-protocol.git
cd a2a-protocol
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .
```

### Complete Project Integration Guide

**For building and integrating your own agents with A2A**, see:
👉 **[PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md](PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** — Step-by-step instructions with:
- ✅ 5-phase integration workflow (prep → implement → test → document → submit)
- ✅ Complete code examples (agent server, client, intents)
- ✅ Testing requirements (unit, integration, security)
- ✅ Documentation templates (README, CONTRIBUTING, API)
- ✅ Submission and review process
- ✅ Troubleshooting and FAQ

**Time estimate:** 6-12 hours for complete project integration

---

### Create Your First Agents

```python
# Agent A: Echo Server
from a2a.core.identity import create_did
from a2a.transport.http import HTTPTransport
from a2a.protocol.handshake import ServerHandshakeFSM

# Create DID and manifest
my_did = create_did()
print(f"Agent A DID: {my_did}")

# Start listening
transport = HTTPTransport(verify_tls=False)  # Use TLS in production!

async def handle_intent(intent_request):
    """Handle incoming intent requests."""
    goal = intent_request.get("goal")
    params = intent_request.get("params", {})
    
    if goal == "echo":
        return {"result": params.get("message")}
    else:
        return {"error": "Unknown intent"}

await transport.start_server(
    host="localhost",
    port=8000,
    handler=handle_intent
)
```

```python
# Agent B: Echo Client
import asyncio
from a2a.core.identity import create_did
from a2a.transport.http import HTTPTransport
from a2a.protocol.handshake import ClientHandshakeFSM

async def main():
    my_did = create_did()
    server_did = "did:key:z5U1GhkGRzRXiH2chZuB2..."  # Agent A's DID
    
    transport = HTTPTransport(verify_tls=False)
    
    # Handshake with Agent A
    fsm = ClientHandshakeFSM(my_did, server_did)
    session_id, expires_at = await fsm.handshake(transport, "http://localhost:8000")
    
    # Send intent
    response = await transport.send(
        endpoint="http://localhost:8000/a2a",
        message={
            "jsonrpc": "2.0",
            "method": "handle_intent",
            "params": {
                "goal": "echo",
                "message": "Hello from Agent B!",
                "session_id": session_id,
            },
            "id": "req-123",
        }
    )
    
    print(response)

asyncio.run(main())
```

See `EXAMPLE_AGENTS.py` for a complete runnable example.

## 🔐 Security Features

### Session Commitment Binding (Issue #1)
- Prevents session hijacking via replayed SESSION messages
- Commitment computed from client/server manifests and nonces
- Verified on every request

### Nonce Replay Prevention (Issue #2)
- Nonces tracked per-DID for 1-hour window
- Replay attempts within window detected and rejected
- Independent tracking per agent

### Policy Hash Validation (Issue #4)
- Policy tamper detection during handshake
- Session NOT created if policy hash mismatches
- Prevents compromised servers from forcing bad policies

### Per-Client-DID Rate Limiting (Issue #5)
- Rate limits enforced across ALL sessions of a client
- Independent from per-session limits
- Prevents single client from flooding with multiple sessions

### Per-Request Intent Filtering (Issue #6)
- Whitelist and blacklist support
- Checked on EVERY request, not just at session setup
- Prevents privilege escalation within active sessions

### Audit Log HMAC Signing (Issue #7)
- Append-only audit log with HMAC-SHA256 signatures
- Tampering cryptographically detectable
- Export for external syslog/archival systems

### Request Sequence Numbering (Issue #8)
- Out-of-order and duplicate requests rejected
- Monotonic sequence counter per session
- Prevents request replay attacks

### Handshake Timeout Cleanup (Issue #9)
- 30-second total handshake timeout
- 10-second per-state timeout
- Timeout triggers automatic cleanup (no partial sessions)

### Concurrent Rate Limit Atomicity (Issue #10)
- Thread-safe rate limit enforcement with RLock
- Race-condition free under concurrent requests
- Works correctly at scale

## 📚 Threat Model Summary

A2A v1.0.0 addresses 9 critical security threats:

| Threat | Mitigation | Implementation |
|--------|-----------|-----------------|
| Session Hijacking | Session Commitment Binding | Issue #1 |
| Nonce Replay | Per-DID Nonce Blacklist | Issue #2 |
| Policy Tampering | Hash Validation | Issue #4 |
| Multi-Session Flooding | Per-Client Rate Limiting | Issue #5 |
| Intent Escalation | Per-Request Filtering | Issue #6 |
| Audit Tampering | HMAC Signing | Issue #7 |
| Request Replay | Sequence Numbering | Issue #8 |
| Incomplete Handshake | Timeout Cleanup | Issue #9 |
| Race Conditions | Atomic Enforcement | Issue #10 |

See `THREAT_MODEL.md` for detailed threat analysis and `DEPLOYMENT.md` for production setup.

## 📖 Documentation

- **[README.md](README.md)** - This file (quick start, overview)
- **[PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md](PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** - Complete agent project integration (5 phases, code examples)
- **[THREAT_MODEL.md](THREAT_MODEL.md)** - Security threat analysis and mitigations
- **[DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Production deployment guide
- **[CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)** - Release notes and version history
- **[EXAMPLE_AGENTS.py](EXAMPLE_AGENTS.py)** - Complete working example

## 🤖 Prompts for AI Agents

Use these prompts to instruct AI agents on implementing A2A Protocol:

### Prompt 1: Implement A2A Agent Server

```
You are an AI assistant specialized in building secure agent services.

TASK: Implement an A2A Protocol-compliant agent server that:
1. Creates a unique DID-based identity
2. Listens for incoming A2A handshake requests
3. Handles intent requests (goals with parameters)
4. Returns properly formatted responses
5. Logs all interactions for audit trail

REQUIREMENTS:
- Use a2a-protocol>=1.0.0 library
- Implement cryptographic signature verification (JWS)
- Enforce TLS 1.3 in production
- Support at least 2 custom intents (define them)
- Achieve 80%+ test coverage
- Document all intents with parameters and responses

DELIVERABLES:
1. agent_server.py - Main server implementation
2. test_agent_server.py - Complete test suite
3. README.md - Quick start guide with examples
4. intents/ - Intent handler modules

REFERENCE: See PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md Phase 2 for code examples and architecture.
Start by reading A2A_PROTOCOL_v1.md specification (Section 5-6).
```

### Prompt 2: Implement A2A Agent Client

```
You are an AI assistant specialized in building secure agent clients.

TASK: Implement an A2A Protocol-compliant client that:
1. Creates its own DID-based identity
2. Discovers and connects to other agents
3. Performs cryptographic handshake
4. Sends intent requests to remote agents
5. Processes and validates responses

REQUIREMENTS:
- Use a2a-protocol>=1.0.0 library
- Implement proper error handling for all failure modes
- Support concurrent calls to multiple agents
- Cache sessions to improve performance
- Full test coverage (≥80%)
- Timeout handling (30s handshake, 10s per-state)

DELIVERABLES:
1. agent_client.py - Client implementation
2. test_agent_client.py - Test suite
3. examples/ - 2 usage examples
4. docs/CLIENT_API.md - API reference

REFERENCE: See PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md Phase 2 for code examples.
Start by reading A2A_PROTOCOL_v1.md Section 5 (Handshake FSM).
```

### Prompt 3: Create Multi-Agent System

```
You are an AI architect designing a multi-agent system.

TASK: Design and implement a network of 3+ interconnected A2A agents:
1. Agent A: Data Processor (analyzes data)
2. Agent B: Translator (translates text)
3. Agent C: Orchestrator (coordinates agents)

REQUIREMENTS:
- All agents must be A2A-compliant
- Each agent has unique DID and manifest
- At least 3 distinct intents per agent
- Agents call each other (client + server)
- Full audit logging
- TLS 1.3 encryption for all communication
- Concurrent request handling

DELIVERABLES:
1. agents/ - Agent implementations
2. integration_test.py - End-to-end tests
3. docker-compose.yml - Local deployment
4. docs/ARCHITECTURE.md - System design

REFERENCE: See PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md examples for orchestration.
Start by defining intent interfaces between agents.
```

### Prompt 4: Extend A2A Protocol

```
You are an AI system architect extending the A2A Protocol.

TASK: Implement a protocol extension for [your feature]:
Examples: custom transport layer, discovery, reputation system, streaming

REQUIREMENTS:
- Compliant with A2A v1.0.0 core
- No breaking changes to existing implementations
- Formal specification document required
- Reference implementation in Python
- Comprehensive test suite (≥85% coverage)
- Security review documentation

DELIVERABLES:
1. SPEC.md - RFC-style specification
2. implementation/ - Reference code
3. tests/ - Complete test suite
4. SECURITY_REVIEW.md - Security analysis

REFERENCE: See docs/adr/ for architecture decision record template.
Submit as PR to main repository after completion.
```

### Quick Prompt Template (Copy & Customize)

```
You are an AI assistant helping implement A2A Protocol agents.

TASK: [Your specific goal here]

A2A PROTOCOL ESSENTIALS:
- DIDs: Decentralized identifiers (did:key:...)
- Manifests: Signed JSON identity cards (JWS)
- Handshake: 6-step authenticated protocol
- Sessions: Encrypted, audited message exchange
- Intents: Goal-based requests with parameters
- Policy: Security constraints and rate limits

REQUIREMENTS:
- Use a2a-protocol>=1.0.0 library
- Implement Ed25519 signatures (JWS RFC 7515)
- Enforce TLS 1.3 in production
- Achieve 80%+ test coverage
- Comprehensive docstrings
- Error handling for all paths

CODE STYLE:
- PEP 8 compliant
- Type hints on public functions
- Async/await for I/O operations
- Clear, boring, infra-grade code

START WITH:
1. Read PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md
2. Study the handshake flow (diagram in README)
3. Review example code in /reference/examples/
4. Write tests before implementation

DELIVERABLES:
1. Source code with docstrings
2. Complete test suite
3. README with examples
4. CONTRIBUTING.md
```

---

## ✅ Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest tests/ -v

# Run security fix tests only
pytest tests/unit/test_security_fixes.py -v

# Run integration tests
pytest tests/integration/ -v

# Run with coverage
pytest tests/ --cov=a2a --cov-report=html
```

**Test Coverage:**
- 208+ tests across all security fixes
- Unit tests for each threat (Issues #1-10)
- Integration tests for end-to-end scenarios
- Concurrent stress tests for atomicity

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
a2a/
├── core/                    # Fundamental types
│   ├── identity.py         # DID generation and management
│   ├── manifest.py         # Agent manifest definitions
│   └── types.py            # Core data structures
├── protocol/               # A2A Protocol implementation
│   ├── handshake/          # Handshake FSM (client & server)
│   ├── session/            # Session management
│   │   ├── manager.py      # Session CRUD
│   │   ├── policy.py       # Policy enforcement
│   │   ├── nonce_tracker.py # Nonce replay prevention (Issue #2)
│   │   ├── audit_log.py    # Audit logging (Issue #7)
│   │   └── errors.py       # Session-specific errors
│   ├── discovery/          # Agent discovery
│   └── verification/       # Cryptographic verification
├── security/               # Cryptography
│   └── crypto.py           # JWS, nonces, key agreement
├── transport/              # HTTP/HTTPS transport
│   ├── http.py             # HTTP implementation
│   ├── transport.py        # Transport interface
│   └── errors.py           # Transport errors
└── config/                 # Configuration
    └── policy.py           # Policy templates
```

## 🔄 Handshake Protocol

```
Client                                     Server
  |                                          |
  |------- HELLO (client_did, nonce_a) ---->|
  |                                          |
  |<--- CHALLENGE (nonce_b, public_keys) ----|
  |                                          |
  |------- PROOF (nonce_a, nonce_b, sig) --->|
  |                                          |
  |<------- POLICY (policy, signature) ------|
  |                                          |
  |--- ACCEPT_POLICY (policy_hash, sig) --->|
  |                                          |
  |<-------- SESSION (session_id) ------------|
  |                                          |
  | <== Session Established ==>              |
  |                                          |
  |--- INTENT (goal, params, commitment) --->|
  |                                          |
  |<--- RESULT (success/error) --------------|
```

Security validations occur at each step:
- **HELLO:** Client identity (DID)
- **CHALLENGE:** Server identity + nonce freshness (Issue #2)
- **PROOF:** Both nonces signed + manifest verification
- **POLICY:** Policy hash validation (Issue #4)
- **SESSION:** Session commitment binding (Issue #1)
- **INTENT:** Session commitment (Issue #1), sequence (Issue #8), rate limit (Issue #5), intent filtering (Issue #6)

## 📊 Performance

- **Handshake latency:** ~100-200ms (depends on network)
- **Request latency:** ~10-50ms (JSON-RPC over HTTPS)
- **Concurrent sessions:** Tested up to 1000+ per agent
- **Rate limiting:** Enforced at sub-millisecond granularity (Issue #10)
- **Audit logging:** ~1-2µs per entry (HMAC overhead negligible)

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Run tests in watch mode
pytest-watch tests/

# Format code
black a2a/

# Type check
mypy a2a/

# Lint
flake8 a2a/

# Security audit
bandit -r a2a/
```

## 📦 Dependencies

- `httpx` - Async HTTP client
- `aiohttp` - Async HTTP server
- `pydantic` - Data validation
- `cryptography` - Cryptographic primitives
- `pytest` - Testing framework

## 📄 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## 🤝 Contributing

### Contributing Code to A2A Protocol

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests for new features
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Submit a pull request

### Contributing Your Own Project

Want to add your own agent or integration to the A2A ecosystem?

📖 **[PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md](PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** provides complete instructions:

1. **Preparation** (30 min)
   - Set up Git repository and virtual environment
   - Install A2A framework
   - Create project structure

2. **Implementation** (2-4 hours)
   - Create agent identity (DID)
   - Implement agent server and/or client
   - Define intent handlers

3. **Testing** (1-2 hours)
   - Write unit tests (80%+ coverage required)
   - Write integration tests
   - Run security checks

4. **Documentation** (1 hour)
   - Write README with examples
   - Document all intents
   - Add CONTRIBUTING guidelines

5. **Submission** (15 minutes)
   - Create PR to main repository
   - Include project description and link
   - Review process (1-3 days)

6. **Publication**
   - Once approved, project is listed on main site
   - Discoverable by other agents in network

**Examples:**
- Simple Echo Agent
- Multi-Agent Orchestrator
- Data Processing Service

See [PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md](PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md) for complete examples.

## 🔗 Links

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/your-org/a2a-protocol
- **Docs:** https://docs.example.com/a2a
- **Issues:** https://github.com/your-org/a2a-protocol/issues

## ✍️ Authors

- A2A Protocol Team
- Security Review: [Your Security Firm]
- Contributors: See CONTRIBUTORS.md

---

**Status:** ✅ Production Ready (v1.0.0)

**Last Updated:** February 2026

**Security Reviewed:** Yes (9 critical threats addressed)

Commit message:

feat: Add comprehensive AI_AGENT_COMPLETE_PROMPT.md
- Create 32KB complete prompt with full step-by-step instructions
- Include detailed implementations for Agent Server, Client, Multi-Agent System
- Add mandatory prerequisites and verification steps
- Include complete code examples with docstrings
- Add testing requirements with code samples
- Include debugging and troubleshooting guide
- Add final verification checklist
- Reference all specification documents and guides
- Update main README and reference/README to highlight complete prompt
- 100% error-resistant prompt design for AI agents

reference/README.md, after:

# A2A Protocol v1.0.0 - Agent-to-Agent Communication

A secure, protocol-driven communication framework for autonomous agents with cryptographic identity binding, policy-based access control, and comprehensive audit logging.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-org/a2a-protocol.git
cd a2a-protocol
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .
```

### Complete Project Integration Guide

**For building and integrating your own agents with A2A**, see:
👉 **[PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md](PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** — Step-by-step instructions with:
- ✅ 5-phase integration workflow (prep → implement → test → document → submit)
- ✅ Complete code examples (agent server, client, intents)
- ✅ Testing requirements (unit, integration, security)
- ✅ Documentation templates (README, CONTRIBUTING, API)
- ✅ Submission and review process
- ✅ Troubleshooting and FAQ

**Time estimate:** 6-12 hours for complete project integration

---

### Create Your First Agents

```python
# Agent A: Echo Server
from a2a.core.identity import create_did
from a2a.transport.http import HTTPTransport
from a2a.protocol.handshake import ServerHandshakeFSM

# Create DID and manifest
my_did = create_did()
print(f"Agent A DID: {my_did}")

# Start listening
transport = HTTPTransport(verify_tls=False)  # Use TLS in production!

async def handle_intent(intent_request):
    """Handle incoming intent requests."""
    goal = intent_request.get("goal")
    params = intent_request.get("params", {})
    
    if goal == "echo":
        return {"result": params.get("message")}
    else:
        return {"error": "Unknown intent"}

await transport.start_server(
    host="localhost",
    port=8000,
    handler=handle_intent
)
```

```python
# Agent B: Echo Client
import asyncio
from a2a.core.identity import create_did
from a2a.transport.http import HTTPTransport
from a2a.protocol.handshake import ClientHandshakeFSM

async def main():
    my_did = create_did()
    server_did = "did:key:z5U1GhkGRzRXiH2chZuB2..."  # Agent A's DID
    
    transport = HTTPTransport(verify_tls=False)
    
    # Handshake with Agent A
    fsm = ClientHandshakeFSM(my_did, server_did)
    session_id, expires_at = await fsm.handshake(transport, "http://localhost:8000")
    
    # Send intent
    response = await transport.send(
        endpoint="http://localhost:8000/a2a",
        message={
            "jsonrpc": "2.0",
            "method": "handle_intent",
            "params": {
                "goal": "echo",
                "message": "Hello from Agent B!",
                "session_id": session_id,
            },
            "id": "req-123",
        }
    )
    
    print(response)

asyncio.run(main())
```

See `EXAMPLE_AGENTS.py` for a complete runnable example.

## 🔐 Security Features

### Session Commitment Binding (Issue #1)
- Prevents session hijacking via replayed SESSION messages
- Commitment computed from client/server manifests and nonces
- Verified on every request

### Nonce Replay Prevention (Issue #2)
- Nonces tracked per-DID for 1-hour window
- Replay attempts within window detected and rejected
- Independent tracking per agent

### Policy Hash Validation (Issue #4)
- Policy tamper detection during handshake
- Session NOT created if policy hash mismatches
- Prevents compromised servers from forcing bad policies

### Per-Client-DID Rate Limiting (Issue #5)
- Rate limits enforced across ALL sessions of a client
- Independent from per-session limits
- Prevents single client from flooding with multiple sessions

### Per-Request Intent Filtering (Issue #6)
- Whitelist and blacklist support
- Checked on EVERY request, not just at session setup
- Prevents privilege escalation within active sessions

### Audit Log HMAC Signing (Issue #7)
- Append-only audit log with HMAC-SHA256 signatures
- Tampering cryptographically detectable
- Export for external syslog/archival systems

### Request Sequence Numbering (Issue #8)
- Out-of-order and duplicate requests rejected
- Monotonic sequence counter per session
- Prevents request replay attacks

### Handshake Timeout Cleanup (Issue #9)
- 30-second total handshake timeout
- 10-second per-state timeout
- Timeout triggers automatic cleanup (no partial sessions)

### Concurrent Rate Limit Atomicity (Issue #10)
- Thread-safe rate limit enforcement with RLock
- Race-condition free under concurrent requests
- Works correctly at scale

## 📚 Threat Model Summary

A2A v1.0.0 addresses 9 critical security threats:

| Threat | Mitigation | Implementation |
|--------|-----------|-----------------|
| Session Hijacking | Session Commitment Binding | Issue #1 |
| Nonce Replay | Per-DID Nonce Blacklist | Issue #2 |
| Policy Tampering | Hash Validation | Issue #4 |
| Multi-Session Flooding | Per-Client Rate Limiting | Issue #5 |
| Intent Escalation | Per-Request Filtering | Issue #6 |
| Audit Tampering | HMAC Signing | Issue #7 |
| Request Replay | Sequence Numbering | Issue #8 |
| Incomplete Handshake | Timeout Cleanup | Issue #9 |
| Race Conditions | Atomic Enforcement | Issue #10 |

See `THREAT_MODEL.md` for detailed threat analysis and `DEPLOYMENT.md` for production setup.

## 📖 Documentation

- **[README.md](README.md)** - This file (quick start, overview)
- **[PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md](PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** - Complete agent project integration (5 phases, code examples)
- **[THREAT_MODEL.md](THREAT_MODEL.md)** - Security threat analysis and mitigations
- **[DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Production deployment guide
- **[CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)** - Release notes and version history
- **[EXAMPLE_AGENTS.py](EXAMPLE_AGENTS.py)** - Complete working example

## 🤖 Prompts for AI Agents

### ⭐ **COMPLETE PROMPT** (Recommended)

For the most comprehensive, error-resistant prompt with full step-by-step instructions:

👉 **[AI_AGENT_COMPLETE_PROMPT.md](AI_AGENT_COMPLETE_PROMPT.md)** (32KB, production-ready)

This document includes:
- ✅ Detailed step-by-step instructions for each task type
- ✅ Complete code examples for agent servers, clients, and multi-agent systems
- ✅ Mandatory prerequisites and verification steps
- ✅ Full testing requirements with code samples
- ✅ Debugging and troubleshooting guide
- ✅ Final verification checklist
- ✅ Complete references to specification and guides

**Use this prompt directly in AI agents without modification.**

---

### Quick Prompts (for reference)

Use these prompts to instruct AI agents on implementing A2A Protocol:

### Prompt 1: Implement A2A Agent Server

```
You are an AI assistant specialized in building secure agent services.

TASK: Implement an A2A Protocol-compliant agent server that:
1. Creates a unique DID-based identity
2. Listens for incoming A2A handshake requests
3. Handles intent requests (goals with parameters)
4. Returns properly formatted responses
5. Logs all interactions for audit trail

REQUIREMENTS:
- Use a2a-protocol>=1.0.0 library
- Implement cryptographic signature verification (JWS)
- Enforce TLS 1.3 in production
- Support at least 2 custom intents (define them)
- Achieve 80%+ test coverage
- Document all intents with parameters and responses

DELIVERABLES:
1. agent_server.py - Main server implementation
2. test_agent_server.py - Complete test suite
3. README.md - Quick start guide with examples
4. intents/ - Intent handler modules

REFERENCE: See PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md Phase 2 for code examples and architecture.
Start by reading A2A_PROTOCOL_v1.md specification (Section 5-6).
```

### Prompt 2: Implement A2A Agent Client

```
You are an AI assistant specialized in building secure agent clients.

TASK: Implement an A2A Protocol-compliant client that:
1. Creates its own DID-based identity
2. Discovers and connects to other agents
3. Performs cryptographic handshake
4. Sends intent requests to remote agents
5. Processes and validates responses

REQUIREMENTS:
- Use a2a-protocol>=1.0.0 library
- Implement proper error handling for all failure modes
- Support concurrent calls to multiple agents
- Cache sessions to improve performance
- Full test coverage (≥80%)
- Timeout handling (30s handshake, 10s per-state)

DELIVERABLES:
1. agent_client.py - Client implementation
2. test_agent_client.py - Test suite
3. examples/ - 2 usage examples
4. docs/CLIENT_API.md - API reference

REFERENCE: See PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md Phase 2 for code examples.
Start by reading A2A_PROTOCOL_v1.md Section 5 (Handshake FSM).
```

### Prompt 3: Create Multi-Agent System

```
You are an AI architect designing a multi-agent system.

TASK: Design and implement a network of 3+ interconnected A2A agents:
1. Agent A: Data Processor (analyzes data)
2. Agent B: Translator (translates text)
3. Agent C: Orchestrator (coordinates agents)

REQUIREMENTS:
- All agents must be A2A-compliant
- Each agent has unique DID and manifest
- At least 3 distinct intents per agent
- Agents call each other (client + server)
- Full audit logging
- TLS 1.3 encryption for all communication
- Concurrent request handling

DELIVERABLES:
1. agents/ - Agent implementations
2. integration_test.py - End-to-end tests
3. docker-compose.yml - Local deployment
4. docs/ARCHITECTURE.md - System design

REFERENCE: See PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md examples for orchestration.
Start by defining intent interfaces between agents.
```

### Prompt 4: Extend A2A Protocol

```
You are an AI system architect extending the A2A Protocol.

TASK: Implement a protocol extension for [your feature]:
Examples: custom transport layer, discovery, reputation system, streaming

REQUIREMENTS:
- Compliant with A2A v1.0.0 core
- No breaking changes to existing implementations
- Formal specification document required
- Reference implementation in Python
- Comprehensive test suite (≥85% coverage)
- Security review documentation

DELIVERABLES:
1. SPEC.md - RFC-style specification
2. implementation/ - Reference code
3. tests/ - Complete test suite
4. SECURITY_REVIEW.md - Security analysis

REFERENCE: See docs/adr/ for architecture decision record template.
Submit as PR to main repository after completion.
```

### Quick Prompt Template (Copy & Customize)

```
You are an AI assistant helping implement A2A Protocol agents.

TASK: [Your specific goal here]

A2A PROTOCOL ESSENTIALS:
- DIDs: Decentralized identifiers (did:key:...)
- Manifests: Signed JSON identity cards (JWS)
- Handshake: 6-step authenticated protocol
- Sessions: Encrypted, audited message exchange
- Intents: Goal-based requests with parameters
- Policy: Security constraints and rate limits

REQUIREMENTS:
- Use a2a-protocol>=1.0.0 library
- Implement Ed25519 signatures (JWS RFC 7515)
- Enforce TLS 1.3 in production
- Achieve 80%+ test coverage
- Comprehensive docstrings
- Error handling for all paths

CODE STYLE:
- PEP 8 compliant
- Type hints on public functions
- Async/await for I/O operations
- Clear, boring, infra-grade code

START WITH:
1. Read PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md
2. Study the handshake flow (diagram in README)
3. Review example code in /reference/examples/
4. Write tests before implementation

DELIVERABLES:
1. Source code with docstrings
2. Complete test suite
3. README with examples
4. CONTRIBUTING.md
```

---

## ✅ Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest tests/ -v

# Run security fix tests only
pytest tests/unit/test_security_fixes.py -v

# Run integration tests
pytest tests/integration/ -v

# Run with coverage
pytest tests/ --cov=a2a --cov-report=html
```

**Test Coverage:**
- 208+ tests across all security fixes
- Unit tests for each threat (Issues #1-10)
- Integration tests for end-to-end scenarios
- Concurrent stress tests for atomicity

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
a2a/
├── core/                    # Fundamental types
│   ├── identity.py         # DID generation and management
│   ├── manifest.py         # Agent manifest definitions
│   └── types.py            # Core data structures
├── protocol/               # A2A Protocol implementation
│   ├── handshake/          # Handshake FSM (client & server)
│   ├── session/            # Session management
│   │   ├── manager.py      # Session CRUD
│   │   ├── policy.py       # Policy enforcement
│   │   ├── nonce_tracker.py # Nonce replay prevention (Issue #2)
│   │   ├── audit_log.py    # Audit logging (Issue #7)
│   │   └── errors.py       # Session-specific errors
│   ├── discovery/          # Agent discovery
│   └── verification/       # Cryptographic verification
├── security/               # Cryptography
│   └── crypto.py           # JWS, nonces, key agreement
├── transport/              # HTTP/HTTPS transport
│   ├── http.py             # HTTP implementation
│   ├── transport.py        # Transport interface
│   └── errors.py           # Transport errors
└── config/                 # Configuration
    └── policy.py           # Policy templates
```

## 🔄 Handshake Protocol

```
Client                                     Server
  |                                          |
  |------- HELLO (client_did, nonce_a) ---->|
  |                                          |
  |<--- CHALLENGE (nonce_b, public_keys) ----|
  |                                          |
  |------- PROOF (nonce_a, nonce_b, sig) --->|
  |                                          |
  |<------- POLICY (policy, signature) ------|
  |                                          |
  |--- ACCEPT_POLICY (policy_hash, sig) --->|
  |                                          |
  |<-------- SESSION (session_id) ------------|
  |                                          |
  | <== Session Established ==>              |
  |                                          |
  |--- INTENT (goal, params, commitment) --->|
  |                                          |
  |<--- RESULT (success/error) --------------|
```

Security validations occur at each step:
- **HELLO:** Client identity (DID)
- **CHALLENGE:** Server identity + nonce freshness (Issue #2)
- **PROOF:** Both nonces signed + manifest verification
- **POLICY:** Policy hash validation (Issue #4)
- **SESSION:** Session commitment binding (Issue #1)
- **INTENT:** Session commitment (Issue #1), sequence (Issue #8), rate limit (Issue #5), intent filtering (Issue #6)

## 📊 Performance

- **Handshake latency:** ~100-200ms (depends on network)
- **Request latency:** ~10-50ms (JSON-RPC over HTTPS)
- **Concurrent sessions:** Tested up to 1000+ per agent
- **Rate limiting:** Enforced at sub-millisecond granularity (Issue #10)
- **Audit logging:** ~1-2µs per entry (HMAC overhead negligible)

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Run tests in watch mode
pytest-watch tests/

# Format code
black a2a/

# Type check
mypy a2a/

# Lint
flake8 a2a/

# Security audit
bandit -r a2a/
```

## 📦 Dependencies

- `httpx` - Async HTTP client
- `aiohttp` - Async HTTP server
- `pydantic` - Data validation
- `cryptography` - Cryptographic primitives
- `pytest` - Testing framework

## 📄 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## 🤝 Contributing

### Contributing Code to A2A Protocol

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests for new features
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Submit a pull request

### Contributing Your Own Project

Want to add your own agent or integration to the A2A ecosystem?

📖 **[PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md](PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)** provides complete instructions:

1. **Preparation** (30 min)
   - Set up Git repository and virtual environment
   - Install A2A framework
   - Create project structure

2. **Implementation** (2-4 hours)
   - Create agent identity (DID)
   - Implement agent server and/or client
   - Define intent handlers

3. **Testing** (1-2 hours)
   - Write unit tests (80%+ coverage required)
   - Write integration tests
   - Run security checks

4. **Documentation** (1 hour)
   - Write README with examples
   - Document all intents
   - Add CONTRIBUTING guidelines

5. **Submission** (15 minutes)
   - Create PR to main repository
   - Include project description and link
   - Review process (1-3 days)

6. **Publication**
   - Once approved, project is listed on main site
   - Discoverable by other agents in network

**Examples:**
- Simple Echo Agent
- Multi-Agent Orchestrator
- Data Processing Service

See [PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md](PROJECT_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md) for complete examples.

## 🔗 Links

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/your-org/a2a-protocol
- **Docs:** https://docs.example.com/a2a
- **Issues:** https://github.com/your-org/a2a-protocol/issues

## ✍️ Authors

- A2A Protocol Team
- Security Review: [Your Security Firm]
- Contributors: See CONTRIBUTORS.md

---

**Status:** ✅ Production Ready (v1.0.0)

**Last Updated:** February 2026

**Security Reviewed:** Yes (9 critical threats addressed)
